## Different componenet mainly
* communication infrastructure (wifi bluetooth nfc RFID(Radio frequency identification, zigbee)
* computing infrastructure ( applications , backend, data capture and analytical tools)
* Things ( devices, sensors wearables, drones)


##Diffferent layers

Device Layer: Consist of various devices like sensors, wearables, smart meters, smartphones, drones...etc and huge set of standard and custom communication protocol like ZigBee, BACNet, LLRP, Mobdus

Data Ingestion and transformation: Data from different data layer transformed to standard format for further processing by data processing layer
    This data could be from sensors, actuators, wearable, RFID received via TCP/IP socket communication or messaging queues like MQTT,AMPQ, CoAP, DDS, KAfka and HTTP/HTTPS over rest API
    
Data processing layer: batch processing of transformed data from device layer to perform image,preventive, and predictive analysis

APPlication layer: 

##Chalenges
1) Dynamic Environment: millons of sensors and different devices connection with the softwares and cloud

2) Real time complexity: IOT applicaitons can have multiple real time scenarios and its usecases are extremely complex

3) Scalability of systems: to create an envrionment for test ..to test functional and non functional aspects is real challenging
The creation of an environment to test a real-time IoT implementation is a challenge

4) Complex set of usecases to create test cases and test data

5) security and privacy

6) safety concerns


Types of testing:

Functional 
As this is an architecture between different set(s) of hardware and software, it becomes mandatory that they talk to each other in real time/near real time. When they both integrate with each other, things such as security, backward compatibility, upgrade issues becomes a challenge for the testing team.

Functional Testing:
Compatibility Testing: device versions, communication protoocl version, os version, device software version
Usablity Testing:
Network Testing:testing on different kind of internet connection
Security Testing:
Performance Testing:testing with device low battery, differenct memory configuration
Service Testing:IOT app web service testing
Operational Testing: TO verify app behavour when its fully charged or updated or misscall or network down

Solutions:

Protocol simulators: One of the interesting
aspects of IoT QA is the ability to work with
multiple protocols. Protocol simulators can
come in handy when there is a huge variety of
device end-points and interfaces to validate

Data recorders: Data recorders from different
types of devices can be helpful in smart
validation across device sets. The recorded
data can be played across different device
end-points automatically, which in turn can be
a great enabler in compatibility testing of apps
across different device sets and communication layers.

Virtualization: This is an important aspect
of IoT validation. Due to highly complex
IoT interfaces, there is little opportunity for
real-time validation of application behavior.
Therefore, it will still be beneficial to bring in
an ample amount of virtualization into the
services on which IoT applications are built.
Virtualization of an IoT ecosystem yields the
benefits of faster turnaround and reduced costs
due to minimal dependency on the production
environment for testing. It also leads to earlie

##Final thoughts

A comprehensive QA strategy is required to cover
the depth and breadth of IoT testing. The strategy must include the types of testing, test lab
setup, testing tools and simulators that should
be deployed. Considering the difficulties in generating big data from the thing in a testing
environment, it is crucial to evaluate data simulation and virtualization techniques. Stubs can be
considered as options during early stages while
data recorders can serve as alternatives at later
stages. Beyond test planning and data simulation,
metrics-driven exhaustive test execution is performed to achieve a stable system.


The investments made in IT infrastructure and
marketing can take businesses only so far, particularly if they do not have a holistic approach to
testing the IoT ecosystem. As IoT expands beyond
the periphery into the mainstream of consumer
and enterprise markets, QA teams must gear up
to help their organizations take advantage of the
tremendous opportunities created by the ongoing business digitization.
It’s time for QA organizations to empower their
companies with reliable IoT products and services
that make good on the promise of smart, connected devices that elevate everything from personal
wellness/hygiene and driving, through manufacturing, logistics management and air travel. With
ever-greater blending of IoT into business and IT,
it is necessary for the QA teams to upskill beyond
traditional functional testing and gear up for integrated testing of embedded software, IT solutions
and big data — and to understand their influence
on one another. 


Orient people to gain an amalgamation of
skills, combining QA, quality engineering and
hardware validation to meet the demands of
IoT QA.
• Build collaborative QA teams with a view
toward performing integrated tests spanning
hardware, software and big data layers, thereby
augmenting the niche and broader aspects of
IoT testing.
• Look for tool-build opportunities: As the distinctions between hardware and software blur,
there is a plethora of opportunities to build
solutions to enhance QA across the internal
systems ecosystem.
• Build labs that serve the entire digital
portfolio, to experiment and simulate real-time
experiences that inform smarter ways of
testing.
• Build a culture of “test as a user” vs. a
mind-set in which the organization merely
tests against requirements; this will ensure
the “experience” component of the IoT stream
is well-established for a comprehensive quality
product or service.
